# Meditation Space
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://youtu.be/IzhGF9Y7pQk>
#### Description:
My name is Joao Goncalves, and this is my CS50's final project, a Meditation Space. So, at first, I encounter myself with a lot of doubts. I did not know what to do, how to do it, how could it be helpful to someone and even doubted that I was capable of getting this project done. I felt like I did not have enough knowledge to present a project of this dimensions, as so, I went and studied a little bit more.

I had a couple of ideas in my head, but all of them seem to be a bit ahead of my knowledge at that particular moment. I end up stopping and thinking what would I create that could be helpful to myself on my own personal problems. I end up facing one of my main problems, which is anxiety, and since I did therapy on a psychologist for about two years, one of the methods that she had presented to me in order to calm down, was a “four seconds” breathing method. So, at that stage I already at a point to start on. I went and did some research, watch some tutorials and spoke to some friends, that got me to conclude that I could build a web application where I could implement the four seconds breathing method.

So, the first step was to find a relaxed image to implement as a background in order to give a sensation of a relaxed and calm environment. Went to google, and got was I was looking for. After that what I had left to do was pretty much the whole main project. So, I went and started my HTML index page where I specified the document type and language, then I created a basic HTML format where I wrote the title, which took me a second to find the best fit. And got my CSS page already included as well. After that, on the body section of my HTML, I went ahead and created a div class of input and a Label with the select name of "Select Breaths", because I wanted to give an option to the user to select how many breaths he wanted to take. For that, I implemented three option tags with the respective values of 3, 5 and 7. After closing the select, I went and created three div classes for the circles, the class of circle-wrap, the class of circle-outline and the class of circle progress, the three classes that would serve to create later my breathing circle. After that I went and created a simple start button and on a script tag added the JavaScript page as source.

Now all I had left was my CSS page to start giving some color and personalize my page. I started by importing a font from Google and editing the page itself with some padding, margin, box-sizing and font. After that, I went to the body and gave a min-height of 100vh, a display of flex, a flex direction as a column because I wanted to have everything displays as so, a justify-content set to center, also align-items to center, gave it a color of white, and as a background I provided the image that I found at the beginning from Google with a background size of cover.
Then I added an after to the body with no content, a position of absolute, height of 130% and a width of 100% in order to fully cover the image and as a background color I added black with the opacity as 60% with and z-index of -1 to bring the buttons to the front of the page.
After having the main body already edited, I got the input class and did a display of flex, a flex direction of column since I wanted to have it displayed as a column and a margin bottom of 40px. On the input label I align the text to the center with a font size of 18px and a margin bottom of 8px. To finish the input section I got the input select and gave it a border of none, a border-radius of 8px, a min-width of 300px, a font size of 16px, a padding of 8px by 4px with a background color of “#2f4f4f” and a color of white, or “#fff”. By the end of the input section all I did was take out the outline trough input “select:focus” and setting it’s value to none.
After having all the properties set for the input it was time for me to start working on the circle, that up to the moment did not exist yet. So I got the class of circle-wrap and did a display of flex, the flex-direction as a column, to have it all centered I left the justify-content and the align-items as center, the position was left as relative and the margin bottom was set to 40px so I could have some margin.
Then it was time to work on the circle-outline which I gave it a width of 300px, a height of 300px as well, to make it a circle I did a border-radius of 50%, background-color I left it as transparent, the border I did 15px solid with the color of “#f1f1f1”. Also added a box-shadow with the following values: “0 10px 15px -3px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1), 0 4px 6px -2px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05)”.
All I needed now was the circle-progress, to mark the breaths, and on that class, I added a width of 50px, a height of 50px a position of absolute, a background-color of “#2f4f4f”, a border-radius of 50%, a transition of 4 ease all, for 4 seconds and a box-shadow with these values: “0 10px 15px -3px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1), 0 4px 6px -2px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05);”. And to finish my circle and grabbed the class of circle-glow and gave a transform value of scale(5.3).
The breaths counter text, from the class of breaths had a text-align which was set to center with a margin-bottom of 24px and a font-size of 24px as well.
The instructions text was also text-align center, and margin-bottom of 32px.
At the end all I had left to configure was the start button with the class of start where I gave it a padding of 8px with 20px, a border-radius of 8px, a background-color of “#fff”, a border of none, a cursor set to pointer, a transition of 0.3s ease all, and a box shadow of “0 1px 3px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1), 0 1px 2px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.06);”.
Now I wanted that the button would change its color when the user would pass his mouse on top of it, so I got the class of start, but with the hover, set its background-color to “#f1f1f1” and the color of the text to “#2f4f4f”. Last but not least, I wanted to make the button inactive so the users could not use it while on a breathing session already, so I got the start class again, but this time inactive and set the pointer-events to none, and the background-color to “#969696”.
The last part of my final project was the Java Script which I still had to configure. So, I started by declaring 5 const variables, one as the circleProgress, another one as numberOfBreaths, following by the start, instructions and breathText. All of them I declared “document.querySelector and getting the respective classes in parenthesis. I also declared the breathsLeft variable with let and set it to 3.
So in order for me to get the selected breaths from the user, I got the numberOfBreaths variable added and EventListener for a change set the numberOfBreaths value equal to the breathsLeft and the breathsLeft I set it equal to the breathsText with innerText, so it could be updated.
After that, I started to work on my circle giving the movement to the circle while breathing. And I declared a variable called growCircle within that variable I did a classList add on the circle progress and added the circle-grow class with a setTimeout and after the setTimeout I added another class list this time to remove the circleProgress and the time was set to 8000 seconds.
Then I went for the Brething instructions part of my app, whe I declared another variable called breathTextUpdate, this time to update the text to each movement of the circle, so “Inhale”, then a setTimeout, then “Hold” followed by another setTimeout and finally the “Exhale” with each timeOut set to 4000 seconds.
At this point all I had left was the final part of my web application and the Start Breathing button attached to all the processes. So, I started by setting the functionality of the web application by declaring a variable called BreathingApp with a variable declared inside called breathingAnimation, and with an if condition on if the breathsLeft variable was equal to 0 than I would provide a innerText on instructions saying to the user that he had completed the breathing session and if he wanted to start another one, he could just press the start button, following that I removed the classList of start-inactive from the start button and set the breathsLeft equal to the numberOfBreaths’s value. To finish the functionality of my web application I updated the breathsText inner text to be equal o the breathsLeft and return on the if statement. Then I added the growCircle variable and the breathTextUpdate and set the time to 12000 seconds.
To finish my Java Script, all was left was the start breathing function from the start button. So, I went ahead and added an EventListener to the start button as a click, set the button trough inactive after, then trough the instructions class with and inner Text I added a message for the user to get ready to start the breathing session, added a setTimeout with 2000 seconds, followed by another instruction within an inner Text waring the user that the session was about to begin, and after another time out of 2000 seconds I provided the breathingApp, the growCircle and breathTextUpdate functions in order to start them as the start button was clicked.

This was my final project, it took me out of my comfort zone, provided me some challenge but at the end I end up learning more, it was really gratifying and I’m really proud of what I’ve accomplished through out this course, and thankful for this amazing ride.
This Was CS50!
